Welcome back.
Let's learn how to build our own graph graphs.
When you look at them, look very intimidating.
But here's the thing.
We've actually learned the tools necessary to build graphs because graphs are built on top of other
data structures.
Remember this diagram of the directed acyclic graph?
Well, many of the data structures that we've been playing with up until now can create something like
this using trees and link lists.
I mean, it looks pretty similar, right?
You have a node with children and different pointers.
Using that knowledge.
Let's talk about how to start thinking about graphs, or at least how to think about building them.
There's three ways they can think about it.
The first is called an edge list, and I have an example for you that we can use to build something
like this.
Let's say we want to build this graph.
How would we go about doing this?
With an edge list, we can say cost graph equals to something like this.
Now.
Let's see what I did here.
I have an array.
And within this array I have one, two, three, four items that itself they are arrays.
But if we look at the graph, the array simply states the connections.
That is, we have zero and two as the first item in the array.
We have two and three as the second array inside of the array and then two in one and one and three.
An edge list simply shows the connection that zero is connected to two and two is connected to zero.
Two's connected to three threes.
Connected to two.
2 to 1.
1 to 3.
So on and so forth.
Quite simple.
There's another way called.
Adjacency or adjacent list.
And in this case, we can create a graph where the index is the node and the value is the nodes neighbors.
What I mean by that?
Well, in here, we can use arrays, we can use objects, we can use link lists.
But let's say that in the index of zero, the first item zero is connected to two.
The.
Index of one that is node one is connected to two and three.
Index of two is connected to zero one and three.
And then finally, index of three or no.
Three is connected to one and two.
And you can also do the above with an object where it might even be clearer.
And if a node value is something other than a number, you can actually give it a value.
So a key and a value and this is extremely useful with the object if you have, like I said, not a
sequential number as we do in this example.
And when we implement our own graph, we're going to use an adjacent list using an object and you'll
see what I mean.
Finally, I want to show you the last method to represent graphs.
It's called adjacent matrix.
And an adjacent matrix is going to look something like this.
This matrix is simply going to have zeros and ones indicating whether the Node X has a connection to
node Y.
Zero means no.
One means yes.
And if you have a way to graph, you can actually add a weights here instead of one and zero so they
can actually be numbers.
I'm not going to type this out because I'm going to bore you to death.
But here is the same representation that we've done with edge list and adjacent list, this time with
adjacent matrix.
What does it mean?
Well, index of zero has a connection with 012, so zero is connected to two.
Then Node one is connected to two and three.
Node two is connected to zero one and three.
And you can see how it's very similar to here.
And Node four is connected to one and two, just like over here.
And once again, instead of arrays, you can use objects here and actually give it a key and a value.
So that this, if it was an object, would be zero.
One, two.
And three.
And if we go to visual go, you'll actually see that they have these three.
Ways to describe graphs, the adjacency matrix and because it's weighted, you see that there's numbers
here instead of zero and one.
We have the adjacency list where it looks like here they have a hash table with the values and also
an edge list with an extra property of the weights because this is a weighted graph and you can see
the weights as well in the adjacency list.
But we've just taken a look at a lot of numbers.
I think it's time for us to build our own graph, to finalize our understanding.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.